install.md, before:



TO DO : auto install (install all dependencies with npm)

# INSTALL NOTES

## Prerequisite: install nodejs and npm

* **Ubuntu**
  - Install and update npm
    ```
    sudo apt-get install npm    ## Will pull NodeJS
    sudo npm install -g n     
    sudo n latest
    ```
  - References: [how can I update Nodejs](https://askubuntu.com/questions/426750/how-can-i-update-my-nodejs-to-the-latest-version), and [install Ubuntu](http://www.hostingadvice.com/how-to/install-nodejs-ubuntu-14-04/#ubuntu-package-manager)


## Light install (without building geometry provide by DB)
```
  git clone https://github.com/MEPP-team/UDV.git
  cd UDV/UDV-Core
  npm install
  npm start
```

Note: for the Vilo3d demo uses ColladaLoader to import handmade buildings, add the following line at the start of `itowns/node_modules/three/examples/js/loaders/ColladaLoader2.js`:
```
THREE = itowns.THREE;
```

They are currently two demos/examples:
 - Vilo3D, demo is obtained by opening `http://localhost:8080/examples/Vilo3D/` (the port number `8080` might be different: refer to URL provided by `npm  install`). Vilo3d demo is configured by default such that the buildings come from locally encoded data (a tileset together with the geometry provided to the client as files). There is thus no requirement for a database server.
 - UDV-core, demo obtained by opening `http://localhost:8080/examples/Demo.html` is configured by default to use a data base server accessed through ad-hoc web-services.

For both demos the configuration for accessing the building data (Lyon 6 borough) is done within the `Main.js` file through the `buildingServerRequest` variable.



## Installation with building server to provide geometry (full install) 

### (1) Install the database. 
The following instructions are an adaptation of [JIGA adhoc building database](https://github.com/MEPP-team/RICT/blob/master/Install.md) (within the context of Ubuntu version as given by `lsb_release -a` yields `Description: Debian GNU/Linux 8.8 (jessie)`):
```
  sudo su citydb_user
  (citydb_user)$ createdb -O citydb_user lyon6_buildings
  (citydb_user)$ psql lyon6_buildings -c "create extension postgis;"
  (citydb_user)$ psql lyon6_buildings -c "create table lyon(gid serial primary key, geom GEOMETRY('POLYHEDRALSURFACEZ', 3946));"
```
Proceed with feeding the DB:
```
  (citydb_user)$ cd
  (citydb_user)$ mkdir Vilo3d
  (citydb_user)$ cd Vilo3d
  (citydb_user)$ git clone https://github.com/Oslandia/citygml2pgsql
  (citydb_user)$ mv citygml2pgsql citygml2pgsql.git && cd citygml2pgsql.git
  (citydb_user)$ wget http://liris.cnrs.fr/vcity/Data/iTowns2/LYON_6EME_BATI_2012_SplitBuildings.gml
  (citydb_user)$ pip --version         # sudo apt-get install python-pip in case you miss pip on python2 !
  (citydb_user)$ sudo pip install lxml # Refer below in case of failure on Python.h, libxml.h...
  python ./citygml2pgsql.py -l LYON_6EME_BATI_2012_SplitBuildings.gml
  python ./citygml2pgsql.py LYON_6EME_BATI_2012_SplitBuildings.gml 2 3946 geom lyon |  psql lyon6_buildings
```

Note: in case of trouble when install lxml python package with pip:
```
  # The following package install were required for pip install lxml to get through
  (citydb_user)$ sudo apt-get install libxml2-dev libxslt1-dev python-dev
  (citydb_user)$ sudo apt-get install zlib1g-dev    # because on 64 bit (uname-a)
```

Assert some content was indeed fed to the DB
```
  psql lyon6_buildings -c "select count(*) from lyon;"
```
which should return 511 buildings.

### (2) Manual edit of database
Then we need to delete two buildings from the 'lyon 6ème' database (in psql) in order to make room for our handmade models (of so called "Îlot du Lac").

Identifying the gid (`173` and `503`) of the buildings to be removed is achieved [through those geographical requests](FindBuildingGID.md).

Delete those two buildings from the DB:
```
  (db_user)$ psql lyon6_buildings -c "delete from lyon where gid in (173,503);"
```

Proceed, [mutatis mutandis](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mutatis_mutandis), with [adding the bounding boxes](https://github.com/MEPP-team/RICT/blob/master/Install.md#7-data-base-f-add-bounding-box-data-to-database-jga-specific--install-the-http-server).

### (3) Install UDV and iTowns
Refer above to the light install version.

### (4) Install an http server
```
  sudo apt install apache2
  sudo cp /etc/apache2/sites-available/000-default.conf /etc/apache2/sites-available/rict.liris.cnrs.fr.conf
```
Edit the newly copied configuration file `/etc/apache2/sites-available/rict.liris.cnrs.fr.conf`: the following ad-hoc configuration should make it
```
<VirtualHost *:80>
	ServerName rict.liris.cnrs.fr
	ServerAlias www.rict.liris.cnrs.fr
	ServerAdmin webmaster@localhost
	DocumentRoot /home/citydb_user/Vilo3d
  <Directory /home/citydb_user/Vilo3d>
     Options Indexes FollowSymLinks MultiViews
     AllowOverride all
     Require all granted
  </Directory>
  ErrorLog ${APACHE_LOG_DIR}/error.log
	CustomLog ${APACHE_LOG_DIR}/access.log combined
</VirtualHost>
```
In case of [CORS](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cross-origin_resource_sharing) related errors refer to [Getting CORS to work with Apache](https://awesometoast.com/cors/) for further twitching.

Remove the default server (to avoid collisions):
```
  sudo rm /etc/apache2/sites-enabled/000-default.conf   ## which is a symlink anyhow
```
```
  sudo a2ensite rict.liris.cnrs.fr.conf   ## To enable the virtual site
  sudo service apache2 restart            ## Relaunch the service 
```
Use Firefox to pop some requests on `http://rict.liris.cnrs.fr/UDV/Vilo3D/index.html`.

Trouble shoot by looking at server's error and log files:
  - `tail -f /var/log/apache2/error.log`
  - `tail -f /var/log/apache2/access.log`

Notes and references: 
 * JGA discourages (within this context) the [usage of uWSGI](http://uwsgi-docs.readthedocs.io/en/latest/StaticFiles.html) as simple http server
 * [Ubuntu Apache2 configuration](https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/how-to-set-up-apache-virtual-hosts-on-ubuntu-14-04-lts)
 * [Ubuntu Apache2 install](https://help.ubuntu.com/lts/serverguide/httpd.html)
 
### (5) Install a building server

### (6) Usage
 * When on the http server, open `UDV/Vilo3D/index.html` in Firefox (Chrome not supported)

Commit message:

Installation now based on itowns#3dtiles-temporal branch.
Install file is now split in two:
 - install.md that concerns the temporal evolution
 - install-Vilo3D.md that documents the installation of the
   Vilo3d demo (based on the Vilo3D-Demo-1.0 tag)
 - removed comment documenting the confusing switch poining to
   the data source for both examples/Demo.js and examples/Vilo3D/Main.js

install.md, after:



TO DO : auto install (install all dependencies with npm)

# INSTALL NOTES

## Prerequisite: install nodejs and npm

* **Ubuntu**
  - Install and update npm
    ```
    sudo apt-get install npm    ## Will pull NodeJS
    sudo npm install -g n     
    sudo n latest
    ```
  - References: [how can I update Nodejs](https://askubuntu.com/questions/426750/how-can-i-update-my-nodejs-to-the-latest-version), and [install Ubuntu](http://www.hostingadvice.com/how-to/install-nodejs-ubuntu-14-04/#ubuntu-package-manager)

## Installation of the client side (with a developer use case)
```
  git clone https://github.com/MEPP-team/UDV.git
  cd UDV/UDV-Core
  install.sh   # In order to pull the temporal branch of iTowns
  npm install
  npm start
```

Use your web browser to open
`http://localhost:8080/examples/Demo.html`.

Not that this demos is configured by default to use a data base server accessed through ad-hoc web-services. Configuration of the accessed database is done within the `Main.js` file through the `buildingServerRequest` variable.


## Installation of a temporal database to provide geometry

FIXME
Caveat emptor: the rest of this doc is not up-to-date.

### (1) Install the database.
The following instructions are an adaptation of [JIGA adhoc building database](https://github.com/MEPP-team/RICT/blob/master/Install.md) (within the context of Ubuntu version as given by `lsb_release -a` yields `Description: Debian GNU/Linux 8.8 (jessie)`):
```
  sudo su citydb_user
  (citydb_user)$ createdb -O citydb_user lyon6_buildings
  (citydb_user)$ psql lyon6_buildings -c "create extension postgis;"
  (citydb_user)$ psql lyon6_buildings -c "create table lyon(gid serial primary key, geom GEOMETRY('POLYHEDRALSURFACEZ', 3946));"
```
Proceed with feeding the DB:
```
  (citydb_user)$ cd
  (citydb_user)$ mkdir Vilo3d
  (citydb_user)$ cd Vilo3d
  (citydb_user)$ git clone https://github.com/Oslandia/citygml2pgsql
  (citydb_user)$ mv citygml2pgsql citygml2pgsql.git && cd citygml2pgsql.git
  (citydb_user)$ wget http://liris.cnrs.fr/vcity/Data/iTowns2/LYON_6EME_BATI_2012_SplitBuildings.gml
  (citydb_user)$ pip --version         # sudo apt-get install python-pip in case you miss pip on python2 !
  (citydb_user)$ sudo pip install lxml # Refer below in case of failure on Python.h, libxml.h...
  python ./citygml2pgsql.py -l LYON_6EME_BATI_2012_SplitBuildings.gml
  python ./citygml2pgsql.py LYON_6EME_BATI_2012_SplitBuildings.gml 2 3946 geom lyon |  psql lyon6_buildings
```

Note: in case of trouble when install lxml python package with pip:
```
  # The following package install were required for pip install lxml to get through
  (citydb_user)$ sudo apt-get install libxml2-dev libxslt1-dev python-dev
  (citydb_user)$ sudo apt-get install zlib1g-dev    # because on 64 bit (uname-a)
```

Assert some content was indeed fed to the DB
```
  psql lyon6_buildings -c "select count(*) from lyon;"
```
which should return 511 buildings.

### (2) Manual edit of database
Then we need to delete two buildings from the 'lyon 6ème' database (in psql) in order to make room for our handmade models (of so called "Îlot du Lac").

Identifying the gid (`173` and `503`) of the buildings to be removed is achieved [through those geographical requests](FindBuildingGID.md).

Delete those two buildings from the DB:
```
  (db_user)$ psql lyon6_buildings -c "delete from lyon where gid in (173,503);"
```

Proceed, [mutatis mutandis](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mutatis_mutandis), with [adding the bounding boxes](https://github.com/MEPP-team/RICT/blob/master/Install.md#7-data-base-f-add-bounding-box-data-to-database-jga-specific--install-the-http-server).

### (3) Install UDV and iTowns
Refer above to the light install version.

### (4) Install an http server
```
  sudo apt install apache2
  sudo cp /etc/apache2/sites-available/000-default.conf /etc/apache2/sites-available/rict.liris.cnrs.fr.conf
```
Edit the newly copied configuration file `/etc/apache2/sites-available/rict.liris.cnrs.fr.conf`: the following ad-hoc configuration should make it
```
<VirtualHost *:80>
	ServerName rict.liris.cnrs.fr
	ServerAlias www.rict.liris.cnrs.fr
	ServerAdmin webmaster@localhost
	DocumentRoot /home/citydb_user/Vilo3d
  <Directory /home/citydb_user/Vilo3d>
     Options Indexes FollowSymLinks MultiViews
     AllowOverride all
     Require all granted
  </Directory>
  ErrorLog ${APACHE_LOG_DIR}/error.log
	CustomLog ${APACHE_LOG_DIR}/access.log combined
</VirtualHost>
```
In case of [CORS](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cross-origin_resource_sharing) related errors refer to [Getting CORS to work with Apache](https://awesometoast.com/cors/) for further twitching.

Remove the default server (to avoid collisions):
```
  sudo rm /etc/apache2/sites-enabled/000-default.conf   ## which is a symlink anyhow
```
```
  sudo a2ensite rict.liris.cnrs.fr.conf   ## To enable the virtual site
  sudo service apache2 restart            ## Relaunch the service
```
Use Firefox to pop some requests on `http://rict.liris.cnrs.fr/UDV/Vilo3D/index.html`.

Trouble shoot by looking at server's error and log files:
  - `tail -f /var/log/apache2/error.log`
  - `tail -f /var/log/apache2/access.log`

Notes and references:
 * JGA discourages (within this context) the [usage of uWSGI](http://uwsgi-docs.readthedocs.io/en/latest/StaticFiles.html) as simple http server
 * [Ubuntu Apache2 configuration](https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/how-to-set-up-apache-virtual-hosts-on-ubuntu-14-04-lts)
 * [Ubuntu Apache2 install](https://help.ubuntu.com/lts/serverguide/httpd.html)

### (5) Install a building server

### (6) Usage
 * When on the http server, open `UDV/Vilo3D/index.html` in Firefox (Chrome not supported)
